>> Speaker 1: What would
you do to this one,
you have that rotation of the whole
scene set up to loop perfectly.
What would you need to do to-
>> Mathew DesLauriers: It's really
complicated, so
there's something that I've,
that's an issue that I'm
struggling with sometimes.
And if you have,
okay I think it's if you have 2D
noise there's a way of using multiple
noise things so that it loops perfectly.
But it's a big thing that I haven't yet
solved properly in all of my work.
So let's say I was to try and
do something like that.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: I mean maybe here
you could say, instead of using time,
you could use the playhead
value times 3.14, which is pi.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: But
you'll probably sometimes see a jump.
And I think there's definitely
ways of doing it, but
I think you'd have to look into it a bit.
So I'm just gonna replace time
with the playhead everywhere.
>> Speaker 1: Is the noise
that's the tricky part?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yeah,
the main tricky part is if you need.
The common way of doing it is let's say
you have 2D noise like the image that we
had before,
this gradient-looking image, and
you wanted it to be seamless,
so that it's a seamless image.
So that when it gets to one end, it's
perfectly gonna loop and go to the next
end, one approach to doing that is to
sample the noise from a higher dimension.
So you use, instead of using 2D noise
here, which is what we're using here,
you'd use 3D noise and
that third coordinate would help
you create this seamlessness to it.
And so that works if you're just using
image and you want seamless images.
But when you get into positions that are
x, y, z, then you have to use 4D noise.
And if you have a 4D noise function
already and you wanna make it seamless,
then you might have to use
five dimensional noise.
And I haven't used five
dimensional noise yet.
That sounds a bit advanced.
But, I mean people have done that, and
then there's other approaches as well.
One approach is instead of always
using a grid like u and v,
you can imagine a virtual
circle that's going around the noise
map and it loops sometimes perfectly.
And then if you wanted to extend that
into 3D, then you can imagine instead of
a circle, it's actually
para-metrically mapped onto a taurus.
It starts to get more complicated,
but yeah.
Basically the answer is, it's complicated.
What's up, Mark?
>> Mark: How do you determine when
you need just 3GS plus pixel shaders,
or when you need to go
further into vertex shaders.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Depends
on what you want to achieve.
So if you wanted just to tweak
the surface textures and
the surface colors of your mesh.
So let's say you had a cube and you wanted
instead of it to be like a red color.
You wanted it to have like
a funky gradient to it, or
you want it to have a funky,
some sort of texture or pattern.
Or even if you wanted it to make it
look a bit more like a certain metal, or
a certain material in the real world?
That's when you'd really be working with
pixel shaders, and fragment shaders.
Whereas if you wanted to manipulate
the position of the cube, so
if you wanted to make it so
that a cube morphs into a sphere.
Or if you wanted to make it so that the
cube is exploding into many triangles like
confetti, that's manipulating
the vertex information of the cube.
So it's the difference between
the surface of the mesh,
versus the actual topology or
the makeup or the construct of the mesh.
So actually a really good thing to test,
if you're if you're getting to this point
and you've got a vertex shader in
a fragment shader working together.
The coolest and easiest thing you
can start to do with vertex shaders
is to use a sphere
instead of using a cube.
So I'm just gonna change this
geometry instead of box geometry.
I'm gonna change it to sphere geometry.
And sphere geometry takes in a coordinate
that is the radius of the sphere, and then
it takes in how dense the sphere is in
terms of the sub division or the segments.
And maybe what I'll do is I'll just
use one mesh just to visualize it.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
we'll just put it in the center just so
you can see what's going on.
And so,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Here we have our
simple set of shaders.
We have a simple vertex shader that passes
along the UV to the fragment shader,
we have a position that's
not being affected.
And then here, our fragment shooter's
doing some weird thing with color and
the uv map.
Can just set the color to just be normal.
But then what we're going to do is,
we're going to manipulate
the vertices of the sphere here.
So we're gonna try and do pos,
which is the position,
+=noise.
And you'll notice that everything is being
offset in one direction or the other,
like diagonally.
What we want to achieve is more
of this like, weird, bumpy,
uniformly bumpy sphere.
And the reason is because we're just
doing position += to some value
between -1 and 1.
So it's all being scaled along
the same sort of direction.
So instead of doing that,
we're gonna do normal * noise,
and now it's gonna use the surface normal,
which is a vector pointing outwards
from the surface of the sphere.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
one more thing I'm gonna do here,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Let's see.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: There we go, so
when we change the pixel shader a bit,
we can visualize our sphere a bit more.
And now we have this kind of cool,
I don't know, flowery type shape.
And we can play with the noise function,
we can give more frequency,
make it really spiky.
Or we can make it really less frequent and
make it more like bulbousy and
more soft and rounded and stuff like that.
Something else you can really think
about here is, using noise functions you
can layer them up to create,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Very,
much more organic looking values.
Cuz right now, so far with noise,
we're always seeing it either being
really spiky or not very spiky.
And so what you can do is,
you can do multiple layers of noise.
You can take this layer of noise, and
make it really soft, and really subtle,
by multiplying the whole thing by 0.1,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And then there.
Now, we'll see,
it's a bit more like a planet surface,
and that's cuz we just scaled down
those noise values a little bit.
And just by multiplying that by 0.1 or
0.05 and
tweaking this frequency,
we can start to get a nice edge to it.
And then we can layer things up by
copy-pasting, doing again the same thing,
but changing these values
around a little bit.
And so, making it so that we introduce
a bit more of these hills and valleys.
So maybe using a low frequency like one or
two, and a higher value here.
This value would be considered amplitude.
So if you're talking about wave signals,
and sound waves, or electricity or
something like that, this would be
amplitude, this would be frequency.
And just by doing this and
by layering up multiple noise offsets,
we can introduce these kinda
interesting planet like features.
And maybe you don't always
wanna use the playhead.
Leave that at zero.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And now all of
a sudden we're sort of creating this
look and
feel of like a sort of planet almost.
Let's just try one thing here, and
you can combine this with actually
a different fragment shader and all of a
sudden your surface could also look noisy
and bumpy in the same technique here,
just by copy pasting our noise stuff.
Except instead of using 4D noise
in our fragment shader, which is
just two dimensions of information, x and
y we can use three dimension noise.
So that might look like
this where we have,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Let's say we
have a color.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: That
didn't work for some reason.
It didn't work because I need
to wrap it with glsify, and
that will allow us to import modules.
If we don't wrap something with glsify,
then it's just a regular GLSL string.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
here we can, let's say,
increase the color offset by some value.
And this value can be based
on the noise function.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And we'll just
do this and then that'll be that.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So
we do uniform float playhead; taking in
the playhead value from the code.
And we run into an error and
that's probably gonna give us
a very specific line number.
And I can already tell what it is,
but I'll just open this up.
And you'll have to sort of,
as you're working with shaders,
you'll have to get familiar with some
of this horrible debugging experience.
Just like looking through
lots of console logs,
but the problem here is
that noise returns a float.
It doesn't return a vec3.
And so your types have to match.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
now we're starting to get something weird.
I can tweak this.
Just play with the numbers and
change them then all of a sudden
we can start to get a bit more diversity
maybe in the surface of the mesh.
Just using these different
various functions.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yeah.
>> Mark: Is it possible to write
your own vertex shader to go
along with the shader
that the standard mesh,
I can't remember what
the standard one was called.
But can you write your own vertex shader,
but then get the lighting and
everything back from your JS?
It seems like we're sort
of coming up on all that.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yeah, yeah, yeah,
so that's a problem that
a lot of people run into.
And there's not a super solid solution,
it starts to get a bit more complicated.
Basically,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: I think there
is a way to,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: You can do include
or something like that, and
three.js has this special syntax that is
a little bit like glsfi, but theirs
is more focused on their own engine.
Yeah, it's complicated.
There's a way of doing it, and
what I've done in the past, is
just extending their mesh basic materials.
So if you search custom mesh
standard material with glslify.
This shows an example
of how you can do that.
You have to extend their
mesh standard material.
This is using old school ES5 syntax but
you can use class extends
mesh standard material.
But there's a bit of
like a setup required.
Then the annoying thing is you
can't just write it from scratch.
You actually have to copy and
paste all of their code and
then just like insert your
own stuff in between.
So that's definitely possible, and
a lot of people are doing that, and
there's a lot of people that are trying to
find different ways of making it easier.
And hopefully in the future
three.js will make it much easier
to do that kind of stuff.
But right now it's a bit messy and
it's not super easy.
But it's definitely
possible if you're keen.